There is a special keyword in JavaScript called Break which we can use instead of loops to break out
of that loop to stop its execution.
Whenever javascript encounters break that loop that it's enclosed in is done so you can use this technically
in a for loop.
It's pretty uncommon but we could.
And the reason it's uncommon is that for loop you're writing the exact rules you're writing how many
times it should run.
So for I equals zero I less than 10 I plus plus I know how many times this is going to run.
Let's say I'll constantly log Hi each time and then I'll break.
When I is equal to five if I equals five I'll call break and this breaks out of that loop.
Let's see what happens.
Zero one two three four five.
We encounter the break and the loop is done.
Like I said it's not very commonly used in a for loop because why not just write this for loop to go
from zero to five instead of zero through ten and then stopping halfway through.
But it is something that you can do.
Also I should mention if you have multiple loops and you break in one of the nested loops it does not
stop all loops from executing it will only stop the inner loop or the current loop that break is located
in.
But like I said not that common in a for loop but it can be common in a while loop in fact using break
we can restructure our while loop from earlier this one where we had a guessing game which wasn't much
of a game for us but for the computer maybe guessing a random number over and over until the guests
match the target.
We could rewrite that using break in a while loop and this might seem odd to write this loop right here.
While true but we can do this as long as we break out at some point.
So this is basically saying loop forever.
But then in the loop we're going to say not so fast.
If this condition is true break out of the loop.
If we wanted to get this exact same logic going just uncommon most of this we will pick our target and
a guess and then while true if Target equals guess we will break.
Otherwise we will make a new guess guess equals math top for math at random and at the bottom we'll
print the target and the guess once you've won congrats you win and then let's also print it here so
we can see what's going on and I can get rid of my original while loop so we still have our logic to
get the two random numbers and then we have this loop that seems crazy.
It seems like it should be an infinite loop while True just the loop forever.
But then we have our condition that says if Target is the same as guests break.
Now if that break doesn't happen we'll print out Target and guests and then we'll get a new guess and
the loop starts over because it's still true while true it's going to go forever until we break.
If I run this you can see it still works.
Target is 9 guesses 7 target 9 guess 1 guess was 9.
So the loop broke right there and then we print.
Congrats you win now.
I'm not such a big fan of this approach because of two main reasons one it can be easy to end up with
infinite loops but the main reason I don't like it is writing while true is just not very some very
explanatory or informational.
If you look at it I would prefer to write something that was maybe while game not maybe not game over.
I think that's better and have a boolean called Game Over and you could change boolean or change came
over from true to false or false to true.
So for me when I look at this loop here you can change this and structure it in a better way while still
using break.
But I just don't find it as intuitive to look at.
But I did want to show you break because it is used occasionally again it will break out of the loop.
It's located in but if there are nested loops it will not break all of them.
It breaks out of its current loop it stops its execution cold in its tracks even if it was set to go
off a thousand more times.
If it encounters break then it's done.